.TH gvmd 8 User Manuals
.SH NAME
gvmd \- Greenbone Vulnerability Manager daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgvmd OPTIONS
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Greenbone Vulnerability Manager is the central management service between security scanners and the user clients. 

It manages the storage of any vulnerability management configurations and of the scan results. Access to data, control commands and workflows is offered via the XML-based Greenbone Management Protocol (GMP). The primary scanner 'OpenVAS Scanner' is controlled directly via protocol OTP while any other remote scanner is coupled with the Open Scanner Protocol (OSP). 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a, --listen=\fIADDRESS\fB\f1
Listen on ADDRESS.
.TP
\fB--create-user=\fIUSERNAME\fB\f1
Create admin user USERNAME and exit.
.TP
\fB--role=\fIROLE\fB\f1
Role for --create-user option.
.TP
\fB--delete-user=\fIUSERNAME\fB\f1
Delete user USERNAME and exit.
.TP
\fB--get-users\f1
List users and exit.
.TP
\fB--create-scanner=\fINAME\fB\f1
Create scanner NAME and exit.
.TP
\fB--scanner-host=\fIHOST\fB\f1
Scanner host for --create-scanner, --rebuild and --update. Default is 127.0.0.1.
.TP
\fB--scanner-port=\fIPORT\fB\f1
Scanner port for --create-scanner, --rebuild and --update. Default is 9391.
.TP
\fB--scanner-type=\fITYPE\fB\f1
Type for --create-scanner option. Could be "OpenVAS Scanner" or "OSP Ovaldi".
.TP
\fB--scanner-ca-pub=\fICAPUB\fB\f1
Scanner CA public key path for --create-scanner.
.TP
\fB--scanner-key-pub=\fIKEYPUB\fB\f1
Scanner public key path for --create-scanner.
.TP
\fB--scanner-key-priv=\fIKEYPRIV\fB\f1
Scanner private key path for --create-scanner.
.TP
\fB--delete-scanner=\fIUUID\fB\f1
Delete scanner with UUID and exit.
.TP
\fB--get-scanners\f1
List scanners and exit.
.TP
\fB--gnutls-priorities=\fIPRIORITY\fB\f1
Set the GnuTLS priority string to PRIORITY.
.TP
\fB--dh-params=\fIFILE\fB\f1
Path to file containing Diffie-Hellman parameters which are needed for DHE-RSA. This file could be generated using openssl or certtool.
.TP
\fB--max-email-attachment-size=\fISIZE\fB\f1
Maximum number of bytes permitted in alert email attachments. 

0 to use the default, negative to allow any size. 
.TP
\fB--max-email-include-size=\fISIZE\fB\f1
Maximum number of bytes permitted in reports inlined in alert email attachments. 

0 to use the default, negative to allow any size. 
.TP
\fB--max-ips-per-target=\fISIZE\fB\f1
Maximum number of IPs per target. 
.TP
\fB-u, --update\f1
Updates the database with information from a running scanner (openvassd) and exits.
.TP
\fB-p, --port=\fINUMBER\fB\f1
Listen on port number \fINUMBER\f1.
.TP
\fB--rebuild\f1
Rebuild the database with information from a running scanner (openvassd) and exits.
.TP
\fB--version\f1
Print version.
.TP
\fB-v, --verbose\f1
Print progress messages.
.TP
\fB-?, --help\f1
Show help.
.SH SIGNALS
SIGHUP causes gvmd to rebuild the database with information from the Scanner (openvassd).
.SH EXAMPLES
gvmd --port 1241

Serve GMP clients on port 1241 and connect to a OTP server on 7772.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBopenvassd(8)\f1, \fBgsad(8)\f1, \fBgvm-cli(8)\f1, 
.SH MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE OPENVAS PROJECT
The canonical places where you will find more information about the OpenVAS project are: \fBhttp://www.openvas.org/\f1 (Official site) \fBhttp://wald.intevation.org/projects/openvas/\f1 (Development Platform) 
.SH COPYRIGHT
The Greenbone Vulnerability Manager is released under the GNU GPL, version 2, or, at your option, any later version. 
